$Id: NOTES,v 1.4 2006/08/09 11:22:25 ianmacd Exp $


0.9.7
-----

LDAP_MOD_DELETE and LDAP_MOD_REPLACE were reversed in win/winldap.h, so
deletion and replacement operations did not work on Win32 systems.


0.9.6
-----

A segfault on FreeBSD when using AMD64 was fixed for this release.

The only other changes are minor clarifications of the documentation.


0.9.5
-----

The Windows build is now believed to work out of the box. It has been tested
on Windows XP SP2, using SVC C++ 6.0 to build the software. Thanks to Chris
Scharf <scharfie@gmail.com> for his work in this area and willingness to work
with me on fixing the problems.


0.9.4
-----

LDAP::Conn#search, LDAP::Conn#search2, LDAP::Conn#search_ext and
LDAP::Conn#search_ext2 have been modified to treat LDAP_SIZELIMIT_EXCEEDED as
success.

After using any of these four methods, the user should use LDAP::Conn#err to
check whether the error status of the Conn object is
LDAP::LDAP_SIZELIMIT_EXCEEDED. If true, the results set has been truncated by
the server.

Previously, LDAP_SIZELIMIT_EXCEEDED would raise an exception and no results
would be returned, which is not the correct behaviour if the user has
deliberately put a limit on the number of results to be returned, as might be
done in order to spare the server.


0.9.3
-----

The usability of the library on Windows platforms is currently a case of 'suck
it and see'. Some people report the code working, others report immediate
segfaults; yet others say that it worked after they made some minor
alterations to the code in order to get it to build.

Differences in Windows platform used, chosen compiler and version, plus the
variety of servers with which the code is used, conspire to result in the
exact facts of the matter not yet having been ascertained.

Most people seemed to experience some difficulty in getting the code to build
on Windows, so some effort has gone into making this better for the 0.9.3
release. This work is difficult, since I do not have a Windows build
environment at my disposal.

If you are a Windows user and you found that the code did not work in its
original form, but you managed to get it to work after some alterations, I
would be very grateful if you wrote to me to let me know what changes were
needed. Please include precise details of your build platform.
